# JURI Installation Instructions

## Dependencies

As a Web Portal, most of the dependencies of JURI are placed on the browsers - it should work well at least in all the recent versions of the main ones (Firefox, Chrome and Safari).

The functioning of LLview, however - in particular, how the permissions are set -, has some requirements on the Web Server:

- Apache
    - Modules
        - mod_authz_groupfile
        - mod_headers
        - mod_rewrite
    - Configuration
        - `AllowOverride All` (to allow [`.htaccess` configurations](#htaccess))
- PHP

JURI already includes several Open Source libraries:

- [AG-Grid Community](https://www.ag-grid.com/)
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)
- [d3](https://d3js.org/)
- [Font Awesome (v4)](http://fontawesome.com/v4/)
- [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/)
- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/)
- [Meimaid](https://mermaid.js.org/)
- [Plotly.js](https://plotly.com/javascript/)
- [svg-pan-zoom](https://github.com/bumbu/svg-pan-zoom)

## Configuration

### Transfer of data from LLview Server

The data to be presented in JURI is generated by the LLview Server and must be copied to some folder to be available on the Web Server.

If necessary, create the folder where the data generated by the LLview server will be copied into (denoted here by `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA`):
    ```
    mkdir $LLVIEW_WEB_DATA
    ```
If you want to use the `transferreports` step described in the [LLview Server section](server_install.md#transferreports-step), make sure to have the keys in `~/.ssh/authorized_keys`. JURI includes the `rrsync.pl` tool used for copying the data, such that the key can be added as
    ```
    from="<ip of LLview Server>",command="$JURI_HOME/utils/rrsync.pl -wo $LLVIEW_WEB_DATA",no-agent-forwarding,no-port-forwarding,no-pty,no-user-rc,no-X11-forwarding <complete public part of the ssh-key>
    ```
Connect once to accept the authenticity of the host.

### User groups

We use `.htgroups` and `.htaccess` files to allow the correct access for the different roles (User, Principal Investigator, Project Admin, Mentor, Admin/Support).

It is therefore important to allow configurations via these files. This is done by adding to the Apache configuration the key:
    ```
    AllowOverride All
    ```

The groups are defined in the file `data/sec_files/.htgroups` that is generated and copied from the LLview Server. 

The absolute path of this file (or relative to the `DocumentRoot`) is written in the generated `.htaccess`. For this reason, the folder `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` must be known when they are created. It must be configured in the [`.llview_server_rc` file of LLview Server](server_install.md#llview_server_rc).

### `.htaccess`

An important configuration used in JURI is provided either from the configuration of server itself (i.e., Apache) or from a specific `.htaccess` located on the main `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` folder. A template file is given in the repo, with commented out keys to be used for:

- `.htpasswd` files
- LDAP
- OpenIDConnect (require Apache configuration)
Other setups can also be used. 

It may be necessary also to adapt the `login.php` page, which obtains the verified logged user (via `$_SERVER['REMOTE_USER']` or `$_SERVER['PHP_AUTH_USER']`) and compares with the mapping generated by the data from the [`webservice` step of the `dbupdate` action](server_install.md#webservice-step) to generate the respective links on the login page. 
    **Note:** If the `login.php` needs to be updated, it may be useful to remove the link created by `$JURI_HOME/utils/linkjuri.sh` (see below) and copy the file directly.

The top-level `.htaccess` is also important to define the decompression of the generated `.gz` files. The provided example in `$JURI_HOME/.htaccess` contains the relevant configuration.

!!! tip

    The login page for supporters has a `Jump to JobID` field to quickly access Detailed HTML reports. A simple setup that also allows a quick links to the reports (e.g., `llview.fz-juelich.de/<JobID>`) is to add an `.htaccess` file in the parent of `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` (i.e. `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA/../`) with the following configuration:
    ```
    RedirectMatch "^/(.*?)/([0-9]+)$" "/$1/login.php?jobid=$2"
    ```

## Installation

- Make sure the [dependencies](#dependencies) are satisfied
- Get JURI (Jülich Reporting Interface):
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/FZJ-JSC/JURI.git
    ```
This is where the `$JURI_HOME` should be defined below, and the instructions also use this notation.
- Link JURI with the data folder: the website (HTML/CSS and JavaScript) are provided by JURI, while the data is coming from LLview Server via the `transferreports` step.
These folders must be linked together inside a given parent folder, denoted here by `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` (defined, for example, by `~/system`), that will be made accessible via the web. 

Inside `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` must be placed:
    - the `data` folder that is copied/synchronized from `${LLVIEW_DATA}/${LLVIEW_SYSTEMNAME}/tmp/jobreport/data` (see how to [transfer data from LLview Server](#transfer-of-data-from-llview-server)), 
    - and the symbolic links for the JURI pages and scripts. These links can be create using the script `linkjuri.sh` provided in `$JURI_HOME/utils`:
        ```
        $JURI_HOME/utils/linkjuri.sh $JURI_HOME $LLVIEW_WEB_DATA
        ```
- The access setup of the portal can be done on the [`.htaccess`](#htaccess) file on the main folder `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` (i.e., the parent of `data/`). An example is given in JURI's repo. 
    **Note:** It is not linked with `linkjuri.sh` as this file may include sensitive data.
- The linked folder `$LLVIEW_WEB_DATA` can then be exposed to external access, e.g.:
    ```
    ln -s $LLVIEW_WEB_DATA /srv/www/htdocs/system
    ```
